CSCI 2020U: System Development and Integration 
Assignment 1
Secondary Instructions

     There are many conceivable techniques that could be implemented to improve the spam detecting process. One of these is the community based approach, also known as the collaborative filtering method. This technique involves the collection of data and user input from thousands of customers in order to build an up-to-date and in-depth filtering system. The main idea is that users could highlight any emails they detect to be spam and notify the main database that everyone can contribute to. These notifications would compile together and be used to efficiently mark certain types of incoming emails in the future. The system could implement the Bayesian filtering method, used in our assignment, on these marked emails. Once a certain amount of common words/phrases are detected from the community's input, the filter would automatically mark them as spam from the user’s perspective. In some cases, when a word/phrase is extremely popular in spam, it would be blacklisted and any emails containing them would be immediately blocked. Especially with a large user base who is enthusiastic about getting rid of spam, this type of collaborative system can maintain a current dictionary of spam related words and phrases that are updated on a regular basis.

     A more realistic idea that could be implemented in our program is a personal blacklist and white-list that the user could develop upon running the program. We would add two text fields, with “add” buttons, one for the white-list and one for the blacklist. The user would be prompted to enter in any words of their choice which would cause the files containing these words to either be never mark as spam or completely blocked. For example, if Randy didn’t want to miss any emails with his name in them, he could white-list his name to make sure none of those messages are improperly marked as spam. On the other hand, the user could add a word such as “Prince” to the blacklist to make sure that all files containing “Prince” never be displayed. When the user types in a word to white-list and pushes the button, any file that contains the word entered would be assigned a 0 spam probability in the treeMap of files and probabilities. Conversely, a blacklisted word would trigger a function that reads all of the words in every file and deletes those that match the submission. This functionality might be a bit risky as it could result in some real emails being blacklisted as well as some spam emails being let through. However, the user is given the power to make the decision on their own.


